all right everyone welcome to the ipfs
All Hands call for July 23rd 2018
starting off today looks like we have a
light agenda with a lot of demos which
is something I'd love to see starting
off we should go with Michel for the
summer report here give me a thumbs up
if you can hear me I had phones are all
aware it awesome thank you
just a quick report out last week for
most of the week I was at the esup
summer meeting ISA this earth science
information partners I believe they pull
together a bunch of earth science data
managers like people from NOAA people
from NASA great folks I worked with them
before when I used to work with NOAA I
proposed an unconference session there
and distributed web stuff it was packed
people were really interested what they
had heard about distributed web stuff
was a bit of ipfs a bit of DAT in
general debt seem more approachable to
folks I'll be writing up notes about all
this and I will post it in a public
place may yell no but yeah some
interesting things there and lots of
interest also now on the ease of slack
there's a distributed web channel where
people are just kind of what is going on
here there is a future here we don't
know what it is we're very excited so
another thing is that if anybody has
interests or time I can hook you up with
where that slack is it would be great to
have people there to be able to answer
questions but that's a separate thing I
think that's the update any questions
anyone have questions
lovely I'll write up in more detail the
full summary of all that but I wanna let
you know that happened perfect alright
so that covers the agenda for today
moving on to demos looks like we have
two from matcha here so is he yep if
you're ready to go through with those
you can go ahead now yeah so I built a
tiny tour tool basically just published
something that's running on localhost
behind HTTP and wait a second
so I have this web server running your
localhost and now I just run it katana
tool which then connects to this lip PDP
server and then opens a tunnel when I
now go to this page it simply dies to
peel back and opens a tiny relay and now
this page is published yeah as I said
and everybody can read it from internet
so anybody can visit this your end right
now and also it looks access so it's
basically it's this tiny tool and it
uses little P that's why I Demetria has
anybody got any questions
Rob the other question yeah it looks
like you didn't necessarily add any
parameters or anything to that because
it tied to a particular host or peer ID
or something or is that configurable
like how do you run the other end I
totally forgot to mention that there is
an admin interface that allows to assign
a user name per here ID and then that
user name is being used as the host name
it's also possible to add the suffix
maybe I could demo it - I forgot that so
I can also if I want to add a suffix and
then it opens starting under mpg 20001
slash website and Yemen interface this
also just simply gives us add another ID
and then I cannot I think I forgot the
API so it's better not to them honest I
didn't really use it too much after I
made it but that's basically what it
does any more questions
alright much if you would like to go on
with your second time out you can go
ahead
so the second demo is I have written
this room called EPP no trust some time
ago that issues certificates to any note
based on its IP address and I've
recently rewritten the whole thing in
micro-services so it can be managed more
easily and wanted to demo how that works
and so this is the demo page this
basically connects to the issuing sir
but it also runs pops up where all no
trust notes announce there are no trust
addresses and connects to them so these
are the addresses that have been issued
and it connects to them and about the
issuance process
so here are four tires the top left is
the DNS heart top right is the proof
server the bottom left is the issuance
ever and the bottom right is the server
or the client run so if I run the client
first connects with issued server then
connects two different proof servers for
example for ipv4 and then that should
get long here that would require two
proof then it does a DNS one charge
while it's encrypt using a DNS server
and then it acquires a SART via is me
and since assert back to the client and
after that the client should appear in
the browser now it did and so much
oh then fully work maybe let's reload
the page
and now it's connected to the client
that I just launched yeah as I said by
I'd asserted just acquired and yeah
that's basically what no trust us and
additionally I would maybe I don't know
if I should ask this in this meeting but
I would also like to get this deployed
and in the protocol let's infrastructure
silent have to manage this and maybe get
it into J's ipfs because would be really
useful for the browser as browsers would
be able to connect to any here instead
of having to use PDP circuit because
browsers have limited TCP connectivity
and that everyone wants to run in jazz
at the festival web RTC and yeah it's
what no trust us has anybody got
questions today I would like to ask the
group here if anyone with authority is
present for for such a thing like we're
watch I go to to possibly get this into
our infrastructure
I could probably talk to Lars
the actual can you give me yes
the actual question is like do we do we
actually need it like we thank you so
much for demoing not dressed again
matching it is right now just I can
clear because we haven't done the actual
like thinking of all these fits together
we bleep utopia collection modules and
like what users expect is actually we
think are like really creates beauty
issues in the future and so there are
all these questions like if we go maybe
a couple months maybe three months of
ipfs our ends ago will see that like
these questions were raised in the past
but like we still haven't had the time
to like dive deep and get an answer to
those and so yes like I guess like we
couldn't just like post it like if it's
just a question on like resources to
like host the service and we can sit but
from that to actually communicating to
our users creating a tutorial about all
these words like it's advising people to
use it it's a it's a different step and
so I would like to see away with more
people getting involved with no trust
reviewing it like sharing sharing their
thoughts probably like get no trust to
be like to have a proper speken RFC so
other people can really understand
what's happening underneath and I quote
are the shortcomings that they try to
solve
otherwise we we might just like keep
adding something that we don't clearly
understand the implications you know I
lost everyone quick people hearing from
to the end I mean a very like a
connection I'm so sorry okay and so yes
basically like we should have this
discussion like any people are super
interested like they should or at least
we can self appoint themselves right now
or later
but like weren't here to review and work
on this with magic
in math you can like follow up on the
issue on fleek it appear about no trust
and defeating the group here to see if
everyone anyone as at the time - I know
that everyone is pretty busy with some
events of that happening so all right so
it looks like we have no other questions
on that all right up next we have Jamie
with Hugh bot alright y'all hear me
I am Jamie dialing in from New York
longtime listener first-time caller this
will be a fast one so if you all saw a
couple weeks ago when Juan demoed the
ipfs who bought scripted erode which
interfaces with the daemon locally and
allows you to run all these commands and
then he'd done it kind of how everybody
bootstraps a little who about plugin
just as like a little script inside of
the directly inside of your who bought
application all I did was just break it
out into a plugin which I've done a
bunch of times before for things that
reused makes easier to upgrade it easier
to publish easier to add into Europe who
bought I sent in a little PR here on
this tab before switching it over which
is still outstanding in case anybody
wants to improve me and then if you need
a quick demo I have a little who bought
that I've had running inside of a couple
different slacks and IRC channels for a
few years that because you can see it's
kind of just uses the external scripts
and so you got about IPS here and this
is published on NPM right now and then
if you want to see you know works
exactly like the way ones did where you
know I can ask my help I can ask FS help
and then I'm gonna grab a hand you could
just save hash and weight and it pins
your hashes for you and that's it but
that means that if we make updates to
plugins centrally you know it's as easy
as a little NPM update inside of your
own boo box to get the latest version
which just makes an easier thing to
easier to maintain I think that's most
option obligatory awkward any questions
it was cool thank you
all right cool demo of a side but let's
move on to another cool demo from Lydell
here talking about ipfs in firefox
nightly
yeah hmm let's try to lower my screen
okay let's read can you see my screen
yeah cool alright so I created a Lib D
web branch in aquifers companion our
companion browser extension and you have
to use scripts to build it the sleepy
web experiment you just run lib do a
build and then you need to download
Firefox nightly make sure it's on your
path and then if you run in this context
you just start Firefox nightly with our
little experiment and hopefully yeah
looks like it
you
Lytle I think you've gone muted
I think I've muted myself when I was
like dragging this sorry about that so
we don't have many we don't have many
hashes to test so I there's this issue
with this experiment
and I put some hashes so if you copy a
hash and put it in the address bar it
will load natively and it stays there so
what's happening behind the scenes is
that there's no HTTP anymore at least in
the browser context we are stringing
corresponds from ipfs node right now
it's like my local node which I connect
over HTTP but you can switch to ember
that one that will work at some point
what's cool about this is that not only
images work but also like regular okay
maybe if I don't make a typo yeah if you
copy without a typo you will see there
is like a regular website loading from
ipfs protocol and not only that we also
have directory listening back again you
can't reverse directory and you should
have it locally it goes much faster
what's most exciting for me is that we
got a streaming working and that means
and that means you have like a video of
working over this negative protocol and
it's actually it's a real stream you can
start watching before it loads
what does not work yet is that if you
try to use ipfs protocol in things like
video tag I like created a small demo
page oh okay
not work so that was not supposed to
work and I think there is some kind of a
bug because it not always works so there
are two videos one is like lovey-dovey
ipfs protocol and another one is read
from the public gateway that's the
current state of things we also have
like basic Rohan link so if you paste
invalid CID you will get an information
that you should upgrade to base 42 it
will make this like user experience
better but for now that starts and there
are like a list of open questions and
known issues which will be talking over
time with friends from Mozilla watts
that's the current status updates of a
native protocol handler and I'll stop
sharing right now so I can see if there
are any quick cuts and questions Rob is
is the supposed bug that we didn't get
to see is that a Lib D web problem or is
that something on a companion side
that's a good question I suspect the
problem is that the way streaming of
video sources work this may be like
internal hundred of our content range
header in HTTP the problem is that when
you move away from HTTP you don't have
this abstraction so it may be that we
may need additional like metadata layer
or like way of signaling ranges for
those whose cases that's like an open
question it might look like it's
possible that it started working because
I've opened it directly before so it was
like in Firefox memory it might be
related to Firefox specific architecture
it might be
specific to experiment or it's just
maybe that we don't have those like
range semantics yet all right any more
questions for that okay any impromptu
agenda items or does anyone need help
with anything that they would like to
ask the group
Michelle I have a question and you might
be able to redirect me somewhere the
biggest question that came up but he
said well maybe there are two separate
questions one of them was what happens
on ipfs for something like New York
Times or something like that where
there's a place that you want to go a
lot but the stuff underneath the changes
is that something that someone has
written up or does that make sense like
you might have a Content address to an
article but you want to find a group of
articles somewhere that like folder does
there a concept of that and I give us
might not be a good question I'm reading
some texts here if you go from the top
again
you want a like some way to link from a
content dress article to some set of
articles um probably I mean the general
concept that I couldn't explain it cuz
don't buy neither the key was that what
happens then was something like the New
York Times where it changes but you want
to have you want to be able to put in it
yeah you could also think of it I mean
related but maybe a separate question is
like streaming but that's kind of a
separate one but we have somebody called
IP NS it's a beautiful link system
so you can put your your data in a
Content restful system and then make an
IP NS point or point to it and then we
gonna update it you just you change it
and you could get a new content restful
address and then you make the pointer
point to the new thing
if you want something more like live you
can do this with JavaScript where like
you load some content addressable thing
and you're in your website in your web
browser and then you're writing
JavaScript the background the connection
various servers or like text to like the
lipid EP network and you just publish
something like that's like touch new
data but it really depends on what
you're trying to do for like a simple
like you want to make the New York Times
or you want like make some blog you
gotta for yourself or the content users
use IP NS
I think that was their their way their
example probably about the use case for
big data stuff would be a new version of
data comes up and you want to be able to
like say oh here's all the stuff and
then okay here's the new thing there's
anything here there's new thing but not
lose the connection but this is the new
version of the thing a lot okay yeah
usually what you do there is you you
would like you would have your data set
you'd have a high penis link to the
points your data set and you make the
I've been a twenty point as new data set
and the new days that would point back
to the old data set I'll learn about IP
Ness sounds like Larry thank you oh that
was Johnny sang a thing built on that
with the web companion and ipfs colon
slash slash is that is the IP NS colon
slash slash and ultimately that's going
to be a hash of a public key and in base
thirty-two encoding how to handle the
multi keys especially for elliptic curve
public keys you know what was the
challenges to to that I suppose the
question is really for Lydell yeah so
that's a very timely question because
like right now if you have IP NS and you
want to refer to the to appear use like
your ID right and the problem is that
those are in base 58 and I don't think
we have like a convention or do we even
allow different like at least multi base
and coding yeah of tier IDs so that's
like an open question and until that
solved we won't be able to use IP NS in
your protocols on the IPS okay do you
have a documented issue somewhere so I'm
working on this right now with as I
presented last week was this IP ID
project with Edie two five five one nine
and there's emerging standard for HD
wallets using two five five one nine and
so I think but it ultimately since
using the peer ID has this did unique
identifier its I'm writing to this issue
about base 32 encoding and it suddenly
like not gonna be possible
yeah like like personally the way I see
it the current PRP ID is just like multi
gosh so if we allow to put it in CID one
like representation that would work the
same way in ipfs and in IP and s it may
be that I don't see some technical
problems Stephen yeah so at the end of
the day we would like to switch to IP LD
forties telugu rid of all those issues
but the upgrade package is a bit unclear
because like the key version 0 the CID
version 0 of keys is not the same thing
as a CID version 0 files so we have two
things that like their bolsters bare
multi hashes and can't tell the
difference there are some issues that
try to figure this out mostly by saying
well there's no real CID version 0 it's
just contextual based on the prefix feel
like you know it / IP FS / the ad
version 0 you interpret it one way if
you have our sessions they're hash
interpret it one way if you have / p2p
fair hashers new tradition boy
unfortunately we also have like we've
been using / ipfs for the protocol as
well vertical name so we can't quite big
you like that for like currently like if
you have /f size that's less to them
whatever that could either be a file or
a key and you can't tell it at the
moment so right Rob I'm the more
practical side does that mean for with
the web and companion stuff the only way
for now to address mutable content that
reliably works is DNS link so you could
have a DNS Collins life life domain name
yeah like anything apart from the native
protocol will work because unless you
want to put a PID like the key hash in
sub-domain and I think a part of using
that in subdomain will work perfectly
like it works right now subdomains and
native protocol handler are kinda the
same abstraction you put base 32
case-insensitive
hash in authority component and the
thing else will work fine
does this do vertical handler have a
link limit in the domain name now sorry
this video protocol handlers video I've
best protocol and don't have a link
limit next lamp how long can it yeah I
don't think we did not try that okay
hopefully not
we got like right now we have everything
sort of fits in a debate name in the
future that's probably not gonna happen
so that will change over time hmm all
right we are slightly over time so I
don't think we have any more time for
questions but it seems like a productive
session with that said I think that's
going to conclude our meeting for today
so I look forward to seeing everyone
next week take care bye bye